and Moses called all Israel and said to
them hear o Israel the statutes and
judgments which I speak in your hearing
today that you may learn them and be
careful to observe them the Lord our God
made a covenant with us in Horeb the
Lord did not make this covenant with our
fathers but with us those who are here
today all of us who are alive the Lord
talked with you face-to-face on the
mountain from the midst of the fire
I stood between the Lord and you at that
time to declare to you the word of the
Lord for you were afraid because of the
fire and you did not go up the mountain
he said I am the Lord your God who
brought you out of the land of Egypt out
of the house of bondage you shall have
no other gods before me you shall not
make for yourself a carved image any
likeness of anything that is in heaven
above or that is in the earth beneath or
that is in the water under the earth you
shall not bow down to them nor serve
them for I the Lord your God am a
jealous God visiting the iniquity of the
father's upon the children to the third
and fourth generations of those who hate
me but showing mercy to thousands to
those who love me and keep my
Commandments you shall not take the name
of the Lord your God in vain for the
Lord will not hold him guiltless who
takes his name in vain observe the
Sabbath day to keep it holy as the Lord
your God commanded you six days you
shall labor and do all your work but the
seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord
your God in it you shall do no work you
know your son nor your daughter nor your
male servant nor your female servant nor
your ox nor your donkey nor any of your
cattle nor your stranger who is within
your gates that your male servant and
your female servant may rest as well as
you and remember that you were a slave
in the land of Egypt and the Lord your
God brought you out from there by a
mighty hand and by an outstretched arm
therefore the Lord your God commanded
you to keep the Sabbath day honor your
father and your mother as the Lord your
God has commanded you that your days may
be long and that it may be well with you
in the land which the Lord your God is
giving you you shall not murder you
shall not commit adultery you shall not
steal you shall not bear false witness
against your neighbor you shall not
covet your neighbor's wife and you shall
not desire your neighbor's house his
field his male servant his female
servant his ox his donkey or anything
that is your neighbors
[Music]
these words the Lord spoke to all your
assembly in the mountain from the midst
of the fire the cloud and the thick
darkness with a loud voice and he added
no more and he wrote them on two tablets
of stone and gave them to me so it was
when you heard the voice from the midst
of the darkness while the mountain was
burning with fire that you came near to
me all the heads of your tribes and your
elders and you said surely the Lord our
God has shown us his glory and his
greatness and we have heard his voice
from the midst of the fire we have seen
this day that God speaks with man yet he
still lives now therefore why should we
die for this great fire will consume us
if we hear the voice of the Lord our God
any more than we shall die for who is
there of all flesh who has heard the
voice of the Living God
speaking from the midst of the fire as
we have and lived you go near and hear
all that the Lord our God may say and
tell us all that the Lord our God says
to you and we will hear and do it
then the Lord heard the voice of your
words when you spoke to me and the Lord
said to me I have heard the voice of the
words of this people which they have
spoken to you they are right in all that
they have spoken oh that they had such a
heart in them that they would fear me
and always keep all my Commandments that
it might be well with them and with
their children for ever go and say to
them return to your tents but as for you
stand here by me and I will speak to you
all the commandments the statutes and
the judgments which you shall teach them
that they may observe them in the land
which I am giving them to possess
therefore you shall be careful to do as
the Lord your God has commanded you you
shall not turn aside for the right hand
or to the left you shall walk in all the
ways which the Lord your God has
commanded you that you may live and that
it may be well with you and that you may
prolong your days in the land which you
shall possess
you